google on average makes over eight
algorithm changes per day
that's a lot of algorithm changes
so how do you ensure that you're doing
all the right things to continually stay
at the top of google hey everyone i'm
neil patel and today i want to break
down four daily seo tasks that you ought
to do
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
as you can see on my screen i'm at
neilpatel.com
ubersuggest now some of the daily tasks
that i do
use uber says and some of them don't and
i'm going to break them all down for you
so the first daily task that i like
doing
is checking my rankings so if you're on
uber status if you haven't you can type
in your domain or keyword
hit enter
and then i want you to go and click on
the dashboard button
this is going to be where you add
projects
so if you don't have a project you know
i already have some here you would click
new project and you would add in your
url so i'm going to add in one of my
company urls
np digital put in the name
pick my location let's say i want to
track my rankings in the united states i
can also track city locations or
multiple countries at the same time but
for now just let's use united states and
for keywords i'm going to put my name
i'm going to put my company name i'm
going to also put seo company maybe
that's the term that we want to track
paid media agency is a good one
let's see what else advertising agency
advertising agency seo
so i got some keywords and i can mainly
add more about
six keywords here you get the point
and then i can also add in my
competitors domains and then compare my
traffic with them so let's say quick
spread is one of my competitors let's do
that even though it's not really a
competitor
rate tracking daily mobile rank tracking
on that way i can see my rank trackings
on a daily basis
and click next and you want my team to
grow traffic let's click no
all right you're done project gets added
and then your rankings will load
sometimes it takes 10 20 minutes for the
first set of rankings when you just
added your project
but let's go to the rank tracking report
and let's look at you know as you can
see here i already
picked up a few keywords within the next
5-10 minutes more will be picked up
let's look at one of my older profiles
neil patel
and
i can pick custom time ranges like last
30 days
and then you can see how your rankings
are fluctuating over time if you do
weekly rank checking you'll see dots for
weekly if you do daily you'll see dots
for daily
and this is really simple because
then you can see all right are my
rankings going up cool the ones that are
going down i will look at those pages
and see what i need to do to improve
them so i can get my rankings to go up
back over time
and what you want to do is let's say i'm
ranking number eight for seo company
what i would do is just google seo
company
and i would look at all right
who's and some of these results are
localized and i would just look and be
like all right who's above me
what are they doing
and what i need to be doing to rank
higher so then i would just look at
their pages
and compare them to my pages so here's
seo.com i'll just go through them look
at their page go really in depth like
you know this exact match domain so i
may skip that one uh here is ignite
visibility
go more in depth have a lot of content
talk about services have some images to
break down steps
with their process
and then
then there is clutch which is review
site which is super detailed but in
essence what i would do is i would go
through these to try to figure out all
right what do i need to do to make my
page better
the second thing that i like doing in
uber suggests on a daily basis is i go
to the keyword overview and i'll
continually search for new keywords so
already know about the keyword seo
company but i may type in keywords like
digital marketing
and i constantly try to find more
variations of some of these terms
and what uber says will do is it'll show
you a list of keywords some content
ideas list of keywords and the search
volume over time so let's say i look at
the list of keywords
i'd be like huh
you know maybe i want to go after
digital marketing company
let me add it to my list
and i can add it to my digital marketing
list
and i can add the keyword
and what i would do is i would look for
other keywords that i haven't added yet
and i'm going to go down because not all
of them are relevant
i'm going to keep going
let's see
digital marketing firms i probably want
to go after that keyword
and it's you know you can just keep
scrolling go to the next page
and you can keep selecting more and more
so let's say
digital marketing webinars would love
people to watch my webinars add these to
the list four keywords digital marketing
all right and then click add
and by doing this on a daily basis when
i go to my keywords list
i'll constantly have more keywords in
here
so then that way i can continually boost
and increase my rankings because seo is
all about keywords the more keywords you
have the better off you're going to do
assuming you actually take time to
create content around those so each and
every single day what i like doing is
just spending two three minutes on
keyword research and constantly adding
more keywords to my keyword list
the third thing that i love doing is
just doing a regular site audit
so as you can see here neilpatel.com is
already loaded crawled and if it hasn't
been crawled today just click recrawl
and the reason i like doing this is as
you constantly make changes to your
website and you constantly update things
you keep getting more and more seo
errors or things can go wrong
so i'll look at like the critical arrows
these are some pages that take too long
to load
and i'll have my team work on fixing
this because that's more server related
for the issues that are more warnings or
recommendations some of them i can fix
like a page without h1 that's easy i can
go fix that myself
and i just like keeping track of all
these things so that way my seo is tight
and that way i continually try to
perform and rank better over time
the fourth thing i like doing is to head
over to google search console in google
search console you'll see where things
are going wrong where they're not
and they'll list good urls bad urls urls
that need improvement you can open up
any specific report
you want to see less red and as your
yellow increases you want to see less
yellow
and you want to want to go through all
the reports so like i like going to like
the enhancements like breadcrumbs make
sure there's no errors i like going
through
amp breadcrumbs faq
and i just go through them just make
sure there is no major errors so i would
recommend doing that because
again if you button up everything that
you're doing from an seo standpoint it's
not one thing that gets your rankings
it's a lot of little things and by doing
that you'll consistently rank over time
and rank higher
so that's it those are the four tasks i
like doing on a daily basis if you have
any questions leave a comment below if
you enjoy the video like it share it if
you just want my team to do all these
daily tasks for you check out my ad
agency np digital thank you for your
time